RHIDP-12595: Migrate RHDH UI features to New Frontend System (#2107)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/shared/proc-add-plugin-links-to-help-profile-or-app-launcher-menus.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="add-plugin-links-to-help-profile-or-app-launcher-menus_{context}"]

> = Add plugin links to help, profile, or app launcher menus

Reviewer: (Can we say "Add plugin links to drop-down menus"?)

[role="_abstract"]

> Place your plugin's links and actions inside existing dropdown menus (help, profile, or app launcher) to help users discover your features. Use `GlobalHeaderMenuItemBlueprint` to create custom menu item entries programmatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrate the links and actions of your plugin into the {product} `help`, `profile`, or `app launcher` drop-down menus to help users discover your features. 

By using `GlobalHeaderMenuItemBlueprint`, you can create custom menu item entries programmatically.
```

.Prerequisites

> * You have set up the global header plugin in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have configured the global header plugin in your application.
```

* You have access to your plugin source code.

.Procedure

> . To add a plugin link to a dropdown menu, create a menu item extension specifying the target dropdown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To add a plugin link to a drop-down menu, create a menu item extension specifying the target drop-down menu:
```

+
[source,typescript]
----
import { GlobalHeaderMenuItemBlueprint } from '@red-hat-developer-hub/backstage-plugin-global-header/alpha';

const myMenuItem = GlobalHeaderMenuItemBlueprint.make({
  name: 'my-menu-item',
  params: {
    target: 'help',  // Target dropdown: 'help', 'profile', or 'app-launcher'
    component: MyMenuItemComponent,
    priority: 50,
  },
});
----

> . To add simple links without custom components, you can use data-driven configuration:

Reviewer: (Is this optional? If yes, we should mention that)
